.TH RARP 8 "10 February 1996" "net-tools" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
rarp \- manipulate the system RARP table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rarp [-v] [-t type] -a [hostname]"
.br
.B "rarp [-v] -d hostname ..."
.br
.B "rarp [-v] [-t type] -s hostname hw_addr"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rarp
manipulates the kernel's RARP table in various ways.  The primary options
are clearing an address mapping entry and manually setting up one.  For
debugging purposes, the
.B arp
program also allows a complete dump of the RARP table.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Tell the user what is going on by being verbose.
.TP
.B "\-t type"
When setting or reading the RARP table, this optional parameter tells
.B rarp
which class of entries it should check for.  The default value of
this parameter is
.B ether
(i.e. hardware code
.B 0x01
for
.B "IEEE 802.3 10Mbps Ethernet."
Other values might include network technologies such as
.B AX.25 (ax25)
and
.B NET/ROM (netrom).
.TP
.B "\-a [hostname]"
Shows the entries of the specified hosts.  If the
.B hostname
parameter is not used,
.B all
entries will be displayed.
.TP
.B "\-d hostname"
Remove the entrie(s) of the specified host.  This can be used if the
indicated host is brought down, for example.
.TP
.B "\-s hostname hw_addr"
Create an RARP address mapping entry for host
.B hostname
with hardware address set to
.B hw_addr
.  The format of the hardware address is dependent on the hardware
class, but for most classes one can assume that the usual presentation
can be used.  For the Ethernet class, this is 6 bytes in hexadecimal,
separated by colons.
.SH WARNING
Some systems (notably older Sun's) assume that the host replying to
a RARP query can also provide other remote boot services. Therefore 
never gratuitously add rarp entries unless you wish to meet the wrath
of the network administrator.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/rarp,
.SH AUTHORS
Ross D. Martin, <martin@trcsun3.eas.asu.edu>
.br
Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
